1. Nigeria to destroy one million expired COVID-19 vaccines -official
@@ABUJA (Reuters) - Nigeria will destroy around one million expired COVID-19 vaccines, Faisal Shuaib, head of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), said on Monday, adding his agency was working with drug regulator NAFDAC to set a date for their destruction.
Nigeria's health minister Osagie Ehanire said last week some COVID-19 doses donated by rich Western countries had a remaining shelf life of only weeks, adding to the country's challenges in vaccinating its people. Fewer than 4% of adults in Africa's most populous nation of over 200 million have been fully vaccinated.
Shuaib said the country had been accepting vaccines with short shelf lives from international donor nations in an attempt to use them quickly and provide some level of protection for Nigerian due to vaccine scarcity in the past.
Shuaib said Nigeria will no longer accept vaccines with a short shelf life, citing a presidential committee decision.
Last week, Reuters reported that around one million COVID-19 vaccines were estimated to have expired in Nigeria last month without being used.
Still, the World Health Organization's vaccine director Kate O'Brien said in a briefing on Thursday the proportion of wasted doses is smaller in countries receiving doses through COVAX than in many high-income countries. 

2. Research of Malaysia's Covid-19 vaccine in proof-of-concept stage
@@KUALA LUMPUR (Dec 13): Research of the country’s Covid-19 vaccine is still in the proof-of-concept stage, the Dewan Rakyat was told on Monday (Dec 13).
Deputy Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Datuk Ahmad Amzad Hashim said for the messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) vaccine, the candidate vaccine would undergo an in-vitro transcription process, involving various complex laboratory tests.
On the inactivated vaccine research, he said the process of inactivating selected viruses would be done and special substances such as adjuvants would be added to enhance the immune response.
He was replying to a question from Abdul Latiff Abdul Rahman (PAS-Kuala Krai) about the current status of the locally developed mRNA vaccine and about the RM5 million allocation given to Universiti Putra Malaysia (UPM) and Universiti Malaya (UM) for vaccine research and development.
Ahmad Amzad said the research of the Covid-19 mRNA vaccine is being carried out by researchers at the Institute for Medical Research (IMR), while studies related to the development of inactivated virus vaccine technology are being conducted by the IMR with the cooperation of experts from UPM and the Veterinary Research Institute.
He said the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation through its Combating Covid-19 Fund had also channelled an allocation of RM4.9 million to finance two projects.
The projects are the Construction of Recombinant Newcastle Disease Virus Expressing Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) Protein of SARS-Cov-2 Virus as a Vaccine Candidate by UPM and the Development of Modular Mucosal Vaccine Platform Using Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) Bacteria Against Covid-19 conducted by UM. 

3. Indonesia set to kick off Covid-19 vaccinations for kids aged 6 to 11 from Dec 24
@@BOYOLALI (Indonesia), Dec 11 (The Straits Times/ANN): Indonesia is set to start Covid-19 vaccinations for children aged six to 11 from Dec 24.
"Starting Dec 24, we will prioritise vaccines for children. We have allocated around 58 million to 60 million doses," Deputy Health Minister Dante Saksono Harbuwono told media outlet Tempo on Friday (Dec 10).
The policy for child vaccinations was outlined in an instruction sent by the Home Affairs Ministry with regard to Covid-19 prevention and handling during the Christmas and New Year period.
"Local governments can start vaccinating children aged six to 11 years if they have reached 70 per cent of the vaccination target of at least the first dose and 60 per cent of the first-dose vaccination for the elderly in accordance with applicable regulations," the instruction issued by Home Affairs Minister Tito Karnavian on Thursday said.
The Indonesian National Agency of Drug and Food Control had given emergency use authorisation for the use of the Chinese Sinovac vaccine for children aged above five on Nov 2. It had earlier permitted the use of the vaccine for 12- to 17 year-olds, with the objective of resuming in-person classes at schools.
The agency is also conducting trials to evaluate China's Sinopharm vaccine for children under 12.
It will contemplate approval for the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine once it has been registered with the agency, following emergency use authorisation on Oct 29 by the United States Food and Drug Administration for the vaccine to be used on children. - The Straits Times/ANN 

4. Vietnam receives more Covid-19 vaccines - 4.4 million doses from United States and another 1.1 million doses from Australia
@@HANOI, Dec 11 (Vietnam News/ANN): The US sent a further 4.4 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine to Vietnam on Friday night (Dec 10) via the global vaccine sharing initiative COVAX, according to the US mission in the country.
A total of 2.2 million doses arrived in Noi Bai International Airport in Hanoi in the morning, with another 2.23 million doses arriving in Tan Son Nhat International Airport in Ho Chi Minh (HCM) City.
“With this new shipment, the United States has now provided more than 24 million Covid-19 vaccines to Vietnam.
"The US and Việt Nam are committed partners working together to save lives and beat back Covid-19. #NoStringsAttached #BeatCOVID_19 #FriendsIndeed,” the US Consulate General in HCM City wrote on a Facebook post.
The total donation of 24.6 million doses makes the US the biggest donor of vaccines to Vietnam by far.
The Australian embassy in Vietnam has also announced the delivery of more than 1.1 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to Hanoi this week from Australia.
"We have now shared 2.6m doses with Vietnam, with more coming soon.
"These doses are part of Australia’s commitment to share 7.8 million Covid-19 vaccine doses with Vietnam to help combat Covid-19 and promote economic recovery," the embassy said in a Facebook post.
According to health minister Nguyen Thanh Long at a Government meeting on Friday, Vietnam has signed purchase deals or received donations for nearly 211 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, with 156.4 million already arrived as of this week.
About 131 million doses have been administered in the country, with first-dose and second-dose coverage in the adult population (18 years old and above) hitting 96.4 per cent and 76.5 per cent.
A total of 6.4 million doses of vaccines have been administered to children aged 12-17.
Vietnam has only cleared Moderna and Pfizer/BioNTech shots for this age group. - Vietnam News/ANN 

5. Covid-19: 97.3% of adults in Malaysia fully vaccinated as of Dec 11
@@KUALA LUMPUR (Dec 12): A total of 22,772,882 individuals or 97.3% of the adult population in the country have completed their Covid-19 vaccination as of Saturday (Dec 11).
Based on the Health Ministry’s COVIDNOW portal, 98.7% of the adult population, or 23,094,811 individuals have received at least one dose of the vaccine.
Meanwhile, 89.7% of the adolescent population, or 2,824,847 individuals aged between 12 and 17 have received at least one dose of the vaccine, while 86.5% or 2,723,137 individuals in the group have completed the vaccination.
A total of 70,382 doses of the vaccine were dispensed on Saturday, with 1,407 as first dose, 2,353 as second dose and 66,622 as booster dose.
This brings to a total of 54,820,915 doses of the vaccine, including 3,597,902 booster doses having been administered under the National Covid-19 Immunisation Programme (PICK). 

6. Experts: Drop in new daily cases to continue
@@KUALA LUMPUR: THE high vaccination coverage is a contributing factor to the reducing daily Covid-19 cases said, medical experts.
Epidemiologist Associate Professor Dr Malina Osman and Malaysian Public Health Physicians Association president Datuk Dr Zainal Ariffin Omar believed the Covid-19 situation has improved and predicted that the number of cases would continue to drop.
Dr Malina said the situation would most likely become "much better" soon thanks to the increased vaccination rate and greater booster dose coverage.
"It is expected the number of cases will continue to drop," she said. Due to the availability of Covid-19 self-test kits, Dr Malina said it would allow better monitoring of the virus' positive rate.
"The current positive rate is much lower compared with during our most 'difficult' period during this year.
"Also, current information showed that Covid-19 vaccines work well against the Omicron variant," she told the New Straits Times yesterday.
She, however, reminded everyone to continue to comply with the standard operating procedures (SOP) set by the government.
Meanwhile, Dr Zainal said he believed that Omicron would not become a worrying trend.
"Cases are dropping due to the increased coverage of booster shots and people being more aware and practising self-protective behaviour.
"Omicron is super mild. Because our vaccination coverage is very good, I don't see it as a 'really' worrying trend," he said.
On Sunday, Malaysia reported 3,490 new infections, the first time the daily figures dipped below the 4,000 mark since May 16, with an infectivity rate (Rt) at 0.95.
Former Malaysian Medical Association president Professor Datuk Dr N.K.S. Tharmaseelan said it was too early to predict what would happen, especially with so many variables including the loosening of the SOPs that also allowed the freedom to travel.
"There are no restrictions on travelling. International travel is also being facilitated.
"We have seen an uptick in cases in Europe, America and even in Oceania, which is in tandem with the easing of restrictions," he said.
He echoed Dr Malina and Dr Zainal's opinion that the increased coverage in vaccinations and booster shots had led to the decrease of daily cases.
"The drop can be attributed to the increased vaccination coverage and the rolling out of booster shots, which are being carried out at a rapid pace.
"The vaccinations and booster shots have brought down the mortalities, though it has inched beyond the 30,000 mark.
"The focus of vaccinations should be broadened to encompass people under 18 years old."
Dr Tharmaseelan expressed concern that the downtrend might end due to the Sarawak election.
He said a rise in Covid-19 case could be seen during after elections and where travel restrictions and SOP were not adhered to or enforced strictly.
"Omicron, as well as other potential and possible variants, maybe lurking to strike if we let our guard down.
"Life has to go on, but events, including elections, will not
help in keeping the numbers down."

7. Covid-19: Malaysia donates over 800,000 AstraZeneca vaccine doses to Bangladesh, Laos
@@KUALA LUMPUR: The government has decided to donate 559,200 AstraZeneca vaccine doses to Bangladesh and 283,400 doses to Laos to ensure the countries in need have equal access to Covid-19 vaccines.
Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said as of Dec 6, only 20% of Bangladesh's population and 24% of Laos' population had been fully vaccinated against Covid-19.
He said both the countries would receive their supply on Dec 6 and Dec 8 respectively.
Khairy also gave assurances that despite the contributions, Malaysia had sufficient vaccine stocks for the adult and adolescent vaccination programmes, as well as booster doses for eligible individuals.
"The Health Ministry (MOH) hopes the contribution will help the efforts of both governments to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and increase the vaccination rate in their respective countries.
"The Malaysian government, through MOH and Wisma Putra (Foreign Affairs Ministry) will continue to identify and assist countries that have recorded low vaccination rates through the provision of Covid-19 vaccine donations," he said in a statement.
Khairy said Malaysia had previously received a total of 2,913,790 vaccine doses contributed from four countries, namely Japan, the United States, China and the United Kingdom.
"The contribution had helped increase the rate of vaccination coverage in the country, and now, Malaysia hopes to do the same to other countries in need," he added. – Bernama 

8. AstraZeneca, Sinovac vaccines approved as booster shots
The Drug Control Authority (DCA) has approved Covid-19 vaccines from AstraZeneca and Sinovac for use as booster shots, said Health Ministry director-general Dr Noor Hisham Abdullah.
The approval is for people aged 18 years and above who have previously received the same vaccine.
“The AstraZeneca booster shot will be given after an interval of six months following the second dose of the vaccine, while for (Sinovac’s) Coronavac, the booster will be administered three to six months after the second dose is administered.
“The provision of both vaccine products to certain target groups will be detailed by the 'Covid-19 Immunisation Task Force - Booster' (CITF-B) and updated from time to time,” he said in a statement today.
The decision was made during a DCA meeting today. During its last meeting on Oct 8, it granted a similar approval for the Pfizer vaccine to be used as a booster shot.
Noor Hisham said the approvals are on a conditional basis, which requires the vaccines’ quality, safety, and efficacy data to be monitored closely.
“This is to ensure the benefit-over-risk ratio for the vaccines is always positive,” he said.
In immediate response to the approval, Health Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said the approval will pave the way for the Vaccination Technical Working Group to make recommendations on who qualifies to receive the vaccines and the vaccines’ inclusion in the heterologous booster program.
Heterologous boosters refer to a booster shot that is different than the vaccine previously administered, in contrast to homologous boosters where the same vaccine type is used as the booster shot.
A booster shot is given when immunity wanes to a point where it no longer provides adequate protection, in order to improve vaccine effectiveness.
Previously, Vaccine Selection Technical Working Group chairperson Dr P Kalaiarasu said the Pfizer vaccine is the ‘default’ vaccine for Malaysia’s Covid-19 booster shot rollout, even for those who previously received other vaccines.
This is based on data from Thailand and Chile showing heterologous vaccination with the Pfizer shot elicits a robust and more protective immune response against Covid-19.
Nevertheless, Kalaiarasu said last Friday that Sinovac and AstraZeneca vaccines will still be available as booster shots for people who previously received those vaccines, once approved by drug regulators.
This is for those who are medically unable to receive the Pfizer shot (for example, if they have a known allergy to the Pfizer vaccine or its components).
Malaysia’s Covid-19 booster rollout is currently prioritised for frontliners, people aged 40 and above, people aged 18 and above who have comorbidities, workers and residents at long-term care facilities, pregnant women, and people who require the booster shot for overseas travel.
Appointments are being handed out through MySejahtera without the need for registration.
However, those eligible can also sign up to be on a waiting list beginning next Monday, so they could be called up to be vaccinated in case there is a no-show at the appointments. 


